CONTRIBUTING.markdown, before:

# ✨ Contributing to `cloudflare-ddns`

First of all, thank you for your contribution! 🤗

## 🕵️ Security Reports

- See [Security Policy](./SECURITY.markdown)

## 📜 License

- As detailed in the [Apache 2.0](./LICENSE) license, unless explicitly stated otherwise, you agree to license your contribution under [Apache 2.0](./LICENSE), and you assert that you have full power to license your contribution under [Apache 2.0](./LICENSE). Please refer to the license text for more details.

## ⌨️ Coding Style

- Your pull request must pass all CI (continuous integration) checks, possibly except the coverage check.
- You should strive to maximize the coverage as much as possible and practical.

## 📑 Commit Messages and Pull Request Titles

- We loosely follow [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/), and will update pull request titles for you.
- Do not worry too much about the commit messages as long as it is clear what individual commits are for.

Commit message:

docs: document the coding style

CONTRIBUTING.markdown, after:

# ✨ Contributing to `cloudflare-ddns`

First of all, thank you for your contribution! 🤗

## 🕵️ Security Reports

- See [Security Policy](./SECURITY.markdown)

## 📜 License

- As detailed in the [Apache 2.0](./LICENSE) license, unless explicitly stated otherwise, you agree to license your contribution under [Apache 2.0](./LICENSE), and you assert that you have full power to license your contribution under [Apache 2.0](./LICENSE). Please refer to the license text for more details.

## ⌨️ Coding Style

We rely on linters to enforce coding styles. Run `golangci-lint run` at the root of the repository to check whether you have followed the current style.

- Your pull request must pass all CI (continuous integration) checks, possibly except the coverage check.
- You should strive to maximize the coverage as much as possible and practical.

## 📑 Commit Messages and Pull Request Titles

- We loosely follow [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/), and will update pull request titles for you.
- Do not worry too much about the commit messages as long as it is clear what individual commits are for.
