README.markdown, before:

# 🌟 CloudFlare DDNS

[![GitHub Workflow Status](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/favonia/cloudflare-ddns/Building%20and%20Pushing)](https://github.com/favonia/cloudflare-ddns/actions/workflows/build.yaml) [![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/favonia/cloudflare-ddns)](https://hub.docker.com/r/favonia/cloudflare-ddns) [![Docker Image Size (latest)](https://img.shields.io/docker/image-size/favonia/cloudflare-ddns/latest)](https://hub.docker.com/r/favonia/cloudflare-ddns)

An extremely small and fast tool to use CloudFlare as a DDNS service. The tool was originally inspired by [timothymiller/cloudflare-ddns](https://github.com/timothymiller/cloudflare-ddns) which has a similar goal.

```
2021/07/05 07:15:52 🚷 Erasing supplementary group IDs . . .
2021/07/05 07:15:52 🤷 Could not erase supplementary group IDs: operation not permitted
2021/07/05 07:15:52 📭 The variable PGID is empty or unset. Default value: 1000
2021/07/05 07:15:52 📭 The variable PUID is empty or unset. Default value: 1000
2021/07/05 07:15:52 🧑 Effective user ID of the process: 1000.
2021/07/05 07:15:52 👪 Effective group ID of the process: 1000.
2021/07/05 07:15:52 👪 Supplementary group IDs of the process: [……].
2021/07/05 07:15:52 📭 The variable QUIET is empty or unset. Default value: false
2021/07/05 07:15:52 📜 Managed domains: [……]
2021/07/05 07:15:52 📭 The variable IP4_POLICY is empty or unset. Default value: cloudflare
2021/07/05 07:15:52 📜 Policy for IPv4: cloudflare
2021/07/05 07:15:52 📭 The variable IP6_POLICY is empty or unset. Default value: cloudflare
2021/07/05 07:15:52 📜 Policy for IPv6: cloudflare
2021/07/05 07:15:52 📭 The variable TTL is empty or unset. Default value: 1
2021/07/05 07:15:52 📜 TTL for new DNS entries: 1 (1 = automatic)
2021/07/05 07:15:52 📭 The variable PROXIED is empty or unset. Default value: false
2021/07/05 07:15:52 📜 Whether new DNS entries are proxied: false
2021/07/05 07:15:52 📭 The variable REFRESH_INTERVAL is empty or unset. Default value: 5m0s
2021/07/05 07:15:52 📜 Refresh interval: 5m0s
2021/07/05 07:15:52 📜 Whether managed records are deleted on exit: true
2021/07/05 07:15:53 🧐 Found the IPv4 address: ……
2021/07/05 07:15:53 🧐 Found the IPv6 address: ……
2021/07/05 07:15:53 🧐 Found the zone rooted at …… for the domain …….
2021/07/05 07:15:54 👶 Adding a new A record: ……
2021/07/05 07:15:55 👶 Adding a new AAAA record: ……
```

## 📜 Highlights

* Ultra-small docker images (~2MB) with tiny footprints for all popular architectures.
* Ability to update multiple domains across different zones.
* Ability to remove stale records or choose to remove records on exit.
* Ability to obtain IP addresses from either public servers or local network interfaces (configurable).
* Ability to enable or disable IPv4 and IPv6 individually.
* Full configurability via environment variables.
* Ability to pass API tokens via an environment variable or a file.
* Local caching to reduce CloudFlare API usage.

## 🛡️ Privacy and Security

* Public IP addresses are obtained via the [CloudFlare debugging interface](https://1.1.1.1/cdn-cgi/trace). This minimizes the impact on privacy as we will use the CloudFlare API to update DNS records anyways.
* The root privilege is immediately dropped after the program starts.
* There are only two external dependencies, other than the Go standard library:
  1. [cloudflare/cloudflare-go](https://github.com/cloudflare/cloudflare-go): the official Go binding for CloudFlare API v4.
  2. [patrickmn/go-cache](https://github.com/patrickmn/go-cache): in-memory caching.

The CloudFlare binding provides robust handling of pagination and other nuisances of the CloudFlare API, and the in-memory caching helps reduce the API usage.

## 🐋 Deployment with Docker Compose

### Step 1: Updating the Compose File

Incorporate the following fragment into the compose file (typically `docker-compose.y[a]ml`).

```yaml
version: "3"
services:
  cloudflare-ddns:
    image: favonia/cloudflare-ddns:latest
    security_opt:
      - no-new-privileges:true
    network_mode: host
    environment:
      - CF_API_TOKEN
      - DOMAINS
      - PROXIED=true
```

⚠️ The setting `network_mode: host` is for IPv6. If you wish to keep the network separated from the host network, check out the proper way to [enable IPv6 support](https://docs.docker.com/config/daemon/ipv6/).

⚠️  The setting `no-new-privileges:true` provides additional protection when you run the container as a non-root user. (The tool will also attempt to drop the root privilege.) Keep in mind that this might not completely stop malicious containers.

💡 The setting `PROXIED=true` instructs CloudFlare to cache webpages and hide your actual IP addresses. If you wish to bypass that, simply remove `PROXIED=true`. (The default value of `PROXIED` is `false`.)

💡 There is no need to use automatic restart (_e.g.,_ `restart: unless-stopped`) because the tool exits only when non-recoverable errors happen or when you manually stop it.

### Step 2: Updating the Environment File

Add these lines to your environment file (typically `.env`):
```bash
CF_API_TOKEN=<YOUR-CLOUDFLARE-API-TOKEN>
DOMAINS=www.example.org,www2.example.org
```

- The value of `CF_API_TOKEN` should be an API **token** (_not_ an API key), which can be obtained on the [API Tokens page](https://dash.cloudflare.com/profile/api-tokens). Create a token with the **Zone - DNS - Edit** permission and copy the token into the environment file.

  ⚠️ The legacy API key authentication is intentionally _not_ supported. Please use the more secure API tokens.

- The value of `DOMAINS` should be a list of fully qualified domain names (without the final dots) separated by commas. For example, `DOMAINS=a.org,www.a.org` instructs the tool to manage both the domains `a.org` and `www.a.org`. These domains do not have to be in the same zone---the tool will identify their zones automatically.

The tool should be up and running after these commands:
```bash
docker-compose pull cloudflare-ddns
docker-compose up --detach --build cloudflare-ddns
```
However, you might wish to follow the next step to customize it further.

### Step 3: Further Customization

Here are all the environment variables the tool recognizes.

| Name | Valid Values | Meaning | Required? | Default Value |
| ---- | ------------ | ------- | --------- | ------------- |
| `CF_API_TOKEN_FILE` | Paths to files containing CloudFlare API tokens with the `DNS:Edit` permission | The path to the file that contains the token to access the CloudFlare API | Exactly one of `CF_API_TOKEN` and `CF_API_TOKEN_FILE` should be set | N/A |
| `CF_API_TOKEN` | CloudFlare API tokens with the `DNS:Edit` permission | The token to access the CloudFlare API | Exactly one of `CF_API_TOKEN` and `CF_API_TOKEN_FILE` should be set | N/A |
| `DELETE_ON_EXIT` | `1`, `t`, `T`, `TRUE`, `true`, `True`, `0`, `f`, `F`, `FALSE`, `false`, and `False` | Whether managed DNS records should be deleted on exit | No | `false`
| `DOMAINS` | Comma-separated fully qualified domain names (without the final periods) | All the domains this tool should manage | Yes, and the list cannot be empty | N/A
| `IP4_POLICY` | `cloudflare`, `local`, and `unmanaged` | (See below) | No | `cloudflare`
| `IP6_POLICY` | `cloudflare`, `local`, and `unmanaged` | (See below) | No | `cloudflare`
| `PGID` | POSIX group ID | The effective group ID the tool should assume | No | Effective group ID; if it is zero, then the real group ID; if it is still zero, then `1000`
| `PROXIED` | `1`, `t`, `T`, `TRUE`, `true`, `True`, `0`, `f`, `F`, `FALSE`, `false`, and `False` | Whether new DNS records should be proxied by CloudFlare | No | `false`
| `PUID` | POSIX user ID | The effective user ID the tool should assume | No | Effective user ID; if it is zero, then the real user ID; if it is still zero, then `1000`
| `QUIET` | `1`, `t`, `T`, `TRUE`, `true`, `True`, `0`, `f`, `F`, `FALSE`, `false`, and `False` | Whether the tool should reduce the logging | No | `false`
| `REFRESH_INTERVAL` | Any positive time duration, with a unit, such as `1h` or `10m`. See [time.ParseDuration](https://golang.org/pkg/time/#ParseDuration) | The refresh interval for the tool to re-check IP addresses and update DNS records (if necessary) | No | `5m0s` (5 minutes)
| `TTL` | Time-to-live (TTL) values | The TTL values used to create new DNS records | No | `1` (this means “automatic” to CloudFlare)

💡 A policy can be one of the following:

- `cloudflare`: Get the public IP address via the [CloudFlare debugging interface](https://1.1.1.1/cdn-cgi/trace) and update DNS records accordingly.
- `local`: Get the address via local network interfaces and update DNS records accordingly. When multiple local network interfaces or in general multiple IP addresses are present, the tool will use the address that would have been used for outbound UDP connections to CloudFlare servers.

  ⚠️ You need `network_mode: host` for the `local` policy, for otherwise the tool will detect the addresses inside the [bridge network set up by Docker](https://docs.docker.com/network/bridge/) instead of those in the host network.

- `unmanaged`: Stop the DNS updating completely. Existing DNS records will not be removed.

The option `IP4_POLICY` is governing IPv4 addresses and `A`-type records, while the option `IP6_POLICY` is governing IPv6 addresses and `AAAA`-type records. The two options act independently of each other. Both of them apply to all managed domains.

After customizing the tool, run the following command to recreate the container:
```bash
docker-compose up --detach --build cloudflare-ddns
```

### Alternative Setup with Docker Secrets

The tool can work with [Docker secrets](https://docs.docker.com/engine/swarm/secrets/) if you wish to provide the API token via `docker secret`. Pass the secret via `CF_API_TOKEN_FILE=/run/secrets/<secret_name>` instead of using the `CF_API_TOKEN` variable.

## 🛠️ Running without Docker Compose

[![GitHub go.mod Go version](https://img.shields.io/github/go-mod/go-version/favonia/cloudflare-ddns)](https://golang.org/doc/install)

You will need the Go compiler, which can be installed via package managers in most Linux distros or the [official Go install page](https://golang.org/doc/install). After setting up the compiler, run the following command at the root of the source repository:
```bash
go run ./cmd/ddns.go
```
The program does not take arguments directly. Instead, it reads in environment variables. See the above section for the detailed explanation of those variables.

## 💖 Feedback

Questions, suggestions, feature requests, and contributions are all welcome! Feel free to [open a GitHub issue](https://github.com/favonia/cloudflare-ddns/issues/new).

Commit message:

Implement DETECTION_TIMEOUT and CACHE_EXPIRATION.

README.markdown, after:

# 🌟 CloudFlare DDNS

[![GitHub Workflow Status](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/favonia/cloudflare-ddns/Building%20and%20Pushing)](https://github.com/favonia/cloudflare-ddns/actions/workflows/build.yaml) [![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/favonia/cloudflare-ddns)](https://hub.docker.com/r/favonia/cloudflare-ddns) [![Docker Image Size (latest)](https://img.shields.io/docker/image-size/favonia/cloudflare-ddns/latest)](https://hub.docker.com/r/favonia/cloudflare-ddns)

An extremely small and fast tool to use CloudFlare as a DDNS service. The tool was originally inspired by [timothymiller/cloudflare-ddns](https://github.com/timothymiller/cloudflare-ddns) which has a similar goal.

```
2021/07/05 07:15:52 🚷 Erasing supplementary group IDs . . .
2021/07/05 07:15:52 🤷 Could not erase supplementary group IDs: operation not permitted
2021/07/05 07:15:52 📭 The variable PGID is empty or unset. Default value: 1000
2021/07/05 07:15:52 📭 The variable PUID is empty or unset. Default value: 1000
2021/07/05 07:15:52 🧑 Effective user ID of the process: 1000.
2021/07/05 07:15:52 👪 Effective group ID of the process: 1000.
2021/07/05 07:15:52 👪 Supplementary group IDs of the process: [……].
2021/07/05 07:15:52 📭 The variable QUIET is empty or unset. Default value: false
2021/07/05 07:15:52 📜 Managed domains: [……]
2021/07/05 07:15:52 📭 The variable IP4_POLICY is empty or unset. Default value: cloudflare
2021/07/05 07:15:52 📜 Policy for IPv4: cloudflare
2021/07/05 07:15:52 📭 The variable IP6_POLICY is empty or unset. Default value: cloudflare
2021/07/05 07:15:52 📜 Policy for IPv6: cloudflare
2021/07/05 07:15:52 📭 The variable TTL is empty or unset. Default value: 1
2021/07/05 07:15:52 📜 TTL for new DNS entries: 1 (1 = automatic)
2021/07/05 07:15:52 📭 The variable PROXIED is empty or unset. Default value: false
2021/07/05 07:15:52 📜 Whether new DNS entries are proxied: false
2021/07/05 07:15:52 📭 The variable REFRESH_INTERVAL is empty or unset. Default value: 5m0s
2021/07/05 07:15:52 📜 Refresh interval: 5m0s
2021/07/05 07:15:52 📜 Whether managed records are deleted on exit: true
2021/07/05 07:15:52 📭 The variable DETECTION_TIMEOUT is empty or unset. Default value: 5s
2021/07/05 07:15:52 📜 Timeout of each attempt to detect IP addresses: 5s
2021/07/05 07:15:52 📭 The variable CACHE_EXPIRATION is empty or unset. Default value: 6h0m0s
2021/07/05 07:15:52 📜 Expiration of cached CloudFlare API responses: 6h0m0s
2021/07/05 07:15:53 🧐 Found the IPv4 address: ……
2021/07/05 07:15:53 🧐 Found the IPv6 address: ……
2021/07/05 07:15:53 🧐 Found the zone of the domain ……: …….
2021/07/05 07:15:54 👶 Adding a new A record: ……
2021/07/05 07:15:55 👶 Adding a new AAAA record: ……
```

## 📜 Highlights

* Ultra-small docker images (~2MB) with tiny footprints for all popular architectures.
* Ability to update multiple domains across different zones.
* Ability to remove stale records or choose to remove records on exit.
* Ability to obtain IP addresses from either public servers or local network interfaces (configurable).
* Ability to enable or disable IPv4 and IPv6 individually.
* Full configurability via environment variables.
* Ability to pass API tokens via an environment variable or a file.
* Local caching to reduce CloudFlare API usage.

## 🛡️ Privacy and Security

* Public IP addresses are obtained via the [CloudFlare debugging interface](https://1.1.1.1/cdn-cgi/trace). This minimizes the impact on privacy as we will use the CloudFlare API to update DNS records anyways.
* The root privilege is immediately dropped after the program starts.
* There are only two external dependencies, other than the Go standard library:
  1. [cloudflare/cloudflare-go](https://github.com/cloudflare/cloudflare-go): the official Go binding for CloudFlare API v4.
  2. [patrickmn/go-cache](https://github.com/patrickmn/go-cache): in-memory caching.

The CloudFlare binding provides robust handling of pagination and other nuisances of the CloudFlare API, and the in-memory caching helps reduce the API usage.

## 🐋 Deployment with Docker Compose

### Step 1: Updating the Compose File

Incorporate the following fragment into the compose file (typically `docker-compose.y[a]ml`).

```yaml
version: "3"
services:
  cloudflare-ddns:
    image: favonia/cloudflare-ddns:latest
    security_opt:
      - no-new-privileges:true
    network_mode: host
    environment:
      - CF_API_TOKEN
      - DOMAINS
      - PROXIED=true
```

⚠️ The setting `network_mode: host` is for IPv6. If you wish to keep the network separated from the host network, check out the proper way to [enable IPv6 support](https://docs.docker.com/config/daemon/ipv6/).

⚠️  The setting `no-new-privileges:true` provides additional protection when you run the container as a non-root user. (The tool will also attempt to drop the root privilege.) Keep in mind that this might not completely stop malicious containers.

💡 The setting `PROXIED=true` instructs CloudFlare to cache webpages and hide your actual IP addresses. If you wish to bypass that, simply remove `PROXIED=true`. (The default value of `PROXIED` is `false`.)

💡 There is no need to use automatic restart (_e.g.,_ `restart: unless-stopped`) because the tool exits only when non-recoverable errors happen or when you manually stop it.

### Step 2: Updating the Environment File

Add these lines to your environment file (typically `.env`):
```bash
CF_API_TOKEN=<YOUR-CLOUDFLARE-API-TOKEN>
DOMAINS=www.example.org,www2.example.org
```

- The value of `CF_API_TOKEN` should be an API **token** (_not_ an API key), which can be obtained on the [API Tokens page](https://dash.cloudflare.com/profile/api-tokens). Create a token with the **Zone - DNS - Edit** permission and copy the token into the environment file.

  ⚠️ The legacy API key authentication is intentionally _not_ supported. Please use the more secure API tokens.

- The value of `DOMAINS` should be a list of fully qualified domain names (without the final dots) separated by commas. For example, `DOMAINS=a.org,www.a.org` instructs the tool to manage both the domains `a.org` and `www.a.org`. These domains do not have to be in the same zone---the tool will identify their zones automatically.

The tool should be up and running after these commands:
```bash
docker-compose pull cloudflare-ddns
docker-compose up --detach --build cloudflare-ddns
```
However, you might wish to follow the next step to customize it further.

### Step 3: Further Customization

Here are all the environment variables the tool recognizes, in the alphabetic order.

| Name | Valid Values | Meaning | Required? | Default Value |
| ---- | ------------ | ------- | --------- | ------------- |
| `CACHE_EXPIRATION` | Positive time duration, with a unit, such as `1h` or `10m`. See [time.ParseDuration](https://golang.org/pkg/time/#ParseDuration) | The expiration of cached CloudFlare API responses | No | `6h0m0s` (6 hours)
| `CF_API_TOKEN_FILE` | Paths to files containing CloudFlare API tokens with the `DNS:Edit` permission | The path to the file that contains the token to access the CloudFlare API | Exactly one of `CF_API_TOKEN` and `CF_API_TOKEN_FILE` should be set | N/A |
| `CF_API_TOKEN` | CloudFlare API tokens with the `DNS:Edit` permission | The token to access the CloudFlare API | Exactly one of `CF_API_TOKEN` and `CF_API_TOKEN_FILE` should be set | N/A |
| `DELETE_ON_EXIT` | `1`, `t`, `T`, `TRUE`, `true`, `True`, `0`, `f`, `F`, `FALSE`, `false`, and `False` | Whether managed DNS records should be deleted on exit | No | `false`
| `DETECTION_TIMEOUT` | Positive time duration, with a unit, such as `1h` or `10m`. See [time.ParseDuration](https://golang.org/pkg/time/#ParseDuration) | The timeout of each attempt to detect IP addresses | No | `5s` (5 seconds)
| `DOMAINS` | Comma-separated fully qualified domain names (without the final periods) | All the domains this tool should manage | Yes, and the list cannot be empty | N/A
| `IP4_POLICY` | `cloudflare`, `local`, and `unmanaged` | (See below) | No | `cloudflare`
| `IP6_POLICY` | `cloudflare`, `local`, and `unmanaged` | (See below) | No | `cloudflare`
| `PGID` | POSIX group ID | The effective group ID the tool should assume | No | Effective group ID; if it is zero, then the real group ID; if it is still zero, then `1000`
| `PROXIED` | `1`, `t`, `T`, `TRUE`, `true`, `True`, `0`, `f`, `F`, `FALSE`, `false`, and `False` | Whether new DNS records should be proxied by CloudFlare | No | `false`
| `PUID` | POSIX user ID | The effective user ID the tool should assume | No | Effective user ID; if it is zero, then the real user ID; if it is still zero, then `1000`
| `QUIET` | `1`, `t`, `T`, `TRUE`, `true`, `True`, `0`, `f`, `F`, `FALSE`, `false`, and `False` | Whether the tool should reduce the logging | No | `false`
| `REFRESH_INTERVAL` | Positive time duration, with a unit, such as `1h` or `10m`. See [time.ParseDuration](https://golang.org/pkg/time/#ParseDuration) | The refresh interval for the tool to re-check IP addresses and update DNS records (if necessary) | No | `5m0s` (5 minutes)
| `TTL` | Time-to-live (TTL) values in seconds | The TTL values used to create new DNS records | No | `1` (This means “automatic” to CloudFlare)

💡 A policy can be one of the following:

- `cloudflare`: Get the public IP address via the [CloudFlare debugging interface](https://1.1.1.1/cdn-cgi/trace) and update DNS records accordingly.
- `local`: Get the address via local network interfaces and update DNS records accordingly. When multiple local network interfaces or in general multiple IP addresses are present, the tool will use the address that would have been used for outbound UDP connections to CloudFlare servers.

  ⚠️ You need `network_mode: host` for the `local` policy, for otherwise the tool will detect the addresses inside the [bridge network set up by Docker](https://docs.docker.com/network/bridge/) instead of those in the host network.

- `unmanaged`: Stop the DNS updating completely. Existing DNS records will not be removed.

The option `IP4_POLICY` is governing IPv4 addresses and `A`-type records, while the option `IP6_POLICY` is governing IPv6 addresses and `AAAA`-type records. The two options act independently of each other. Both of them apply to all managed domains.

After customizing the tool, run the following command to recreate the container:
```bash
docker-compose up --detach --build cloudflare-ddns
```

### Alternative Setup with Docker Secrets

The tool can work with [Docker secrets](https://docs.docker.com/engine/swarm/secrets/) if you wish to provide the API token via `docker secret`. Pass the secret via `CF_API_TOKEN_FILE=/run/secrets/<secret_name>` instead of using the `CF_API_TOKEN` variable.

## 🛠️ Running without Docker Compose

[![GitHub go.mod Go version](https://img.shields.io/github/go-mod/go-version/favonia/cloudflare-ddns)](https://golang.org/doc/install)

You will need the Go compiler, which can be installed via package managers in most Linux distros or the [official Go install page](https://golang.org/doc/install). After setting up the compiler, run the following command at the root of the source repository:
```bash
go run ./cmd/ddns.go
```
The program does not take arguments directly. Instead, it reads in environment variables. See the above section for the detailed explanation of those variables.

## 💖 Feedback

Questions, suggestions, feature requests, and contributions are all welcome! Feel free to [open a GitHub issue](https://github.com/favonia/cloudflare-ddns/issues/new).
