build/SUMMARY.markdown, before:

<!-- This file is for Docker Hub and Artifact Hub -->

# 🌟 Cloudflare DDNS

[![Github Source](https://img.shields.io/badge/source-github-orange)](https://github.com/favonia/cloudflare-ddns)
[![Go Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/badge/github.com/favonia/cloudflare-ddns/.svg)](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/favonia/cloudflare-ddns/)
[![Codecov](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/favonia/cloudflare-ddns)](https://app.codecov.io/gh/favonia/cloudflare-ddns)
[![Docker Image Size](https://img.shields.io/docker/image-size/favonia/cloudflare-ddns/latest)](https://hub.docker.com/r/favonia/cloudflare-ddns)
[![OpenSSF Best Practices](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/6680/badge)](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/6680)
[![OpenSSF Scorecard](https://api.securityscorecards.dev/projects/github.com/favonia/cloudflare-ddns/badge)](https://securityscorecards.dev/viewer/?uri=github.com/favonia/cloudflare-ddns)

A small, feature-rich, and robust Cloudflare DDNS updater. [Read the full documentation on GitHub.](https://github.com/favonia/cloudflare-ddns/blob/main/README.markdown)

## Supported Tags

- `latest`: the latest stable version
- `edge`: the development version
- `X`: the latest stable version whose major version is `X` (e.g. `1`)
- `X.Y.Z`: a specific stable version

Commit message:

build: change the tag `edge-debug` to `edge-alpine`

build/SUMMARY.markdown, after:

<!-- This file is for Docker Hub and Artifact Hub -->

# 🌟 Cloudflare DDNS

[![Github Source](https://img.shields.io/badge/source-github-orange)](https://github.com/favonia/cloudflare-ddns)
[![Go Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/badge/github.com/favonia/cloudflare-ddns/.svg)](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/favonia/cloudflare-ddns/)
[![Codecov](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/favonia/cloudflare-ddns)](https://app.codecov.io/gh/favonia/cloudflare-ddns)
[![Docker Image Size](https://img.shields.io/docker/image-size/favonia/cloudflare-ddns/latest)](https://hub.docker.com/r/favonia/cloudflare-ddns)
[![OpenSSF Best Practices](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/6680/badge)](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/6680)
[![OpenSSF Scorecard](https://api.securityscorecards.dev/projects/github.com/favonia/cloudflare-ddns/badge)](https://securityscorecards.dev/viewer/?uri=github.com/favonia/cloudflare-ddns)

A small, feature-rich, and robust Cloudflare DDNS updater. [Read the full documentation on GitHub.](https://github.com/favonia/cloudflare-ddns/blob/main/README.markdown)

## Supported Tags

- `latest`: The latest stable version
- `edge`: The development version
- `edge-alpine`: A development build running on a non-minimal Alpine Linux distribution. This allows for easier network troubleshooting due to the availability of additional system tools and libraries.
- `X`: The latest stable version whose major version is `X` (e.g. `1`)
- `X.Y.Z`: A specific stable version
